README.md, before:

# Real-Time Chat Application

This is a real-time chat application built with Node.js, Angular, and Socket.io. It allows users to send and receive messages in real time, join chat rooms, and more.

## Features
- Real-time messaging with Socket.io
- User authentication with JWT
- Multiple chat rooms
- Online/offline status
- Typing indicators

## Roadmap
1. **Connect to Socket.io** ✅ 
  - Basic Socket.io connection.
  - Sending and displaying messages.

2. **User Accounts & Authentication**
  - Implement JWT authentication.
  - Set up registration and login with password hashing (e.g., bcrypt).
  - Allow users to store display names and profile pictures.

3. **Chat Rooms & Message Storage**
  - Design a database schema for users, messages, and chat rooms.
  - Implement multiple chat rooms where users can join/leave.

4. **Frontend Enhancements**
  - Use Angular Material and customize it to improve UI/UX.
  - Add a chat list UI, message bubbles, timestamps, etc.

5. **Real-Time Features**
  - Show online/offline status for users.
  - Implement typing indicators ("User is typing...").
  - Add notifications for new messages.

6. **Testing & CI/CD Deployment**
  - Write unit and integration tests.
  - Use Docker for your database (PostgreSQL/MongoDB) and deploy it using Kubernetes if needed.
  - Set up CI/CD to deploy updates and allow friends to test your app.

7. **Final Enhancements**
  - Improve performance with Redis caching.
  - Implement end-to-end encryption if necessary.
  - Optimize and polish the UI.

## Start the Project

### **In the Development Mode**

To start this project in the development mode use these commands:

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm start

```

And then open a new terminal and run this:

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm start

```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

moved to the docker-kubernetes-deployments folder

README.md, after:

# Real-Time Chat Application

This is a real-time chat application built with Node.js, Angular, and Socket.io. It allows users to send and receive messages in real time, join chat rooms, and more.

## Features
- Real-time messaging with Socket.io
- User authentication with JWT
- Multiple chat rooms
- Online/offline status
- Typing indicators

## Roadmap
1. **Connect to Socket.io** ✅ 
  - Basic Socket.io connection.
  - Sending and displaying messages.

2. **User Accounts & Authentication**
  - Implement JWT authentication.
  - Set up registration and login with password hashing (e.g., bcrypt).
  - Allow users to store display names and profile pictures.

3. **Chat Rooms & Message Storage**
  - Design a database schema for users, messages, and chat rooms.
  - Implement multiple chat rooms where users can join/leave.

4. **Frontend Enhancements**
  - Use Angular Material and customize it to improve UI/UX.
  - Add a chat list UI, message bubbles, timestamps, etc.

5. **Real-Time Features**
  - Show online/offline status for users.
  - Implement typing indicators ("User is typing...").
  - Add notifications for new messages.

6. **Testing & CI/CD Deployment**
  - Write unit and integration tests.
  - Use Docker for your database (PostgreSQL/MongoDB) and deploy it using Kubernetes if needed.
  - Set up CI/CD to deploy updates and allow friends to test your app.

7. **Final Enhancements**
  - Improve performance with Redis caching.
  - Implement end-to-end encryption if necessary.
  - Optimize and polish the UI.

## Start the Project

### **In the Development Mode**

To start this project in the development mode use these commands:

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm start

```

And then open a new terminal and run this:

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm start

```

## Docket & Kubernetes Deployments

The deployments are placed in the [`docker-kubernetes-deployments`](./docker-kubernetes-deployments) folder.
- **[MongoDB](./docker-kubernetes-deployments/mongodb/)**
- **[MongoDB Express](./docker-kubernetes-deployments/mongodb-express/)**

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
